By turning off your computer instead of leaving it in sleep mode, you can save up to 40 watts of electricity per day. If you don't want to wait for your computer to boot in the morning, why not let it boot while you shower? Or you can set it to turn on automatically in the morning. The same applies to other electrical appliances - it is better to turn everything off completely.
Each sheet has two sides and in most cases it won't be a problem if you print or copy something on both. Also, the other side can be used simply for personal notes. Saving 25 reams of paper will save one felled tree!
When processing glass, the level of air pollution is reduced by 20%, and the level of water pollution by 50%. But unprocessed glass can take millions of years to decompose.
It is enough to hang a line for drying clothes and instead of using the washing machine to dry, hang the clothes there after washing. Your clothes will retain their colors and you will also save money on your electricity bill. And your favorite T-shirt will last longer.
Always turn off the lights when you leave a room if there is an incandescent light bulb. In the case of fluorescent lamps, the number of turns on and off plays a role, so they should be turned off only if you leave the room for more than 15 minutes.
Several million newspapers are printed every day. More than 70% of them end up just being thrown in the trash. If you send just one newspaper a week for recycling, it will already help to save many trees.
Plastic decomposes up to 500 years. And microplastic gets to our table with food.
Once in the ground, the battery can pollute 400 liters of water or 20 square meters of soil. Throwing away just two old batteries from a flashlight, you will spoil two bathtubs, 8 buckets and one and a half kettles of clean water.
It takes as much energy to create 20 aluminum cans from recycled old ones as it does to create one completely new one.
About 90 percent of plastic bottles are not recycled, and their decomposition will take thousands of years. A simple solution - use one bottle many times, it will help the environment.
Every year, 500 billion plastic bags are used in the world. They do not decompose for tens of years and most often appear in the oceans, and later they may appear in the stomachs of sea creatures. Today, polyethylene bags are one of the main pollutants in our cities.
So you can save up to 19 liters of water per day! The same applies to washing dishes, some actions in this process also do not require a constant flow of water.
Imagine the environmental pollution caused by food being transported from other regions or countries to your local stores. Therefore, whenever possible, try to support and buy products grown in your region or city. In this way, the amount of greenhouse gas emissions can be significantly reduced.
If you use heating and air conditioning, change the temperature by just one degree. Each degree can save up to 10% of energy.
If you have to travel frequently for business or errands, there is a way to save both fuel and time. A lot of this can wait a couple of days. Simply, instead of traveling somewhere all the time, make a to-do list and then set aside time to travel once a week.
About 33 percent of what we throw into landfills is packaging. Try not to buy products with multiple layers of packaging when one would be enough. In this way, you will support producers who cause less damage to the environment.
On average, today, one mobile phone is used for about 18 months, so about 130 million phones end up in landfills every year. Phone parts and batteries will eventually release toxic elements into the environment. Therefore, it is better to find a place that accepts phones for further ecological recycling.
Before you throw something away, think about whether someone else needs it. And even if it's not needed by someone you know, it's possible that it would be welcome at a charity.
No need to leave the charger plugged in when nothing is being charged. Many people do not know that it is not enough to simply turn off the device itself (phone, laptop, etc.), it is necessary to pull it out of the outlet, since electricity is still consumed.
If you always drive, make it a habit to walk somewhere once a week instead of driving. For example, it can be one trip to work or to the store. Among other things, you will also change the environment.
According to some calculations, if everyone paid for utilities and other services online, instead of using paper receipts, it would be possible to save several tens of millions of trees per year.
If every family in the country replaces one ordinary light bulb in the house with a fluorescent (energy-saving) one, it will lead to a reduction in the level of environmental pollution similar to removing a million cars from the roads. If you do not like the light of such lamps, you can put them at least in those places where light is rarely needed - in the pantry, on the balcony, etc.
The place in the pipe or faucet in the bathroom, where the water drips from, may not interfere, but imagine how much water will leak in this way in a year.
This is good for both air and ground. You can make it a tradition and, for example, plant one tree for each family member once a year.
This can not only extend its service life, but also significantly reduce the level of environmental pollution. A good engine condition, clean air filters, inflated tires can significantly improve the performance of the car.
They will not only decorate the room, but also contribute to air purification and more oxygen in the house.
Lighters are made of plastic and are mostly disposable, so more than a billion of them end up in landfills every year. Matches made of wood are less harmful in this regard, but cardboard matches, which are often made from recycled paper, are an even more environmentally friendly choice.
Instead of disposable paper napkins, you can buy cloth napkins. The advantage is that they can be washed. This will save money on napkins and paper.
Try to agree with a colleague or colleagues who live nearby that you will give them a lift. You will not only reduce the amount of greenhouse gases released into the atmosphere, but you can also get interesting fellow travelers.
Tens of billions of batteries are produced and sold each year, and many of them are disposable alkaline. At the same time, very little is processed. Buy a charger and a couple of rechargeable batteries, they are more expensive, but will pay for themselves after a few months of use.
You will not only reduce the amount of garbage, but you can also save animals that swallow plastic bags in rivers and seas.
Plastic does not decompose naturally: an island has already formed in the Pacific Ocean, which consists entirely of human waste. 100,000 animals die every year after eating such garbage.
A disposable coffee cup is used by a person for 15 minutes, and decomposes in nature for a century.
A huge amount of plastic waste is generated by buying food in fast food chains. It is worth using your own reusable lunch boxes and cups for packaging
This is a more ecological way to keep teeth healthy
This is plastic that takes centuries to decompose. Choose a reusable razor.
1 ton of waste paper will save 17-20 trees, and 1 ton of secondary polymers (plastics) will save 16 tons of crude oil.
Scientists predict that by 2050, fresh water reserves will be almost exhausted, and 4 billion people will not even be able to meet their daily need for drinking water. The banal "turn off the faucet while you brush your teeth" has a deep meaning: if you do this, 1 liter of water is wasted, while 6 liters/minute flows out when the faucet is open.
When buying, pay attention to the efficiency of the equipment (marking A, A+, Energy Star), thus you can reduce your electricity bill by 30%.
Conventional detergents contain phosphates, which, when they get into water bodies, contribute to the violent "greening" of water. Also, phosphates do not pass through filters and can enter our home again through the central water supply system. Therefore, preference should be given to ecological detergents or soap nuts, which are harmless and 98-100% decompose in natural conditions.
In this way, the number of harmful emissions into the air decreases.
Plastic dishes, which serve only for the time that a person consumes food, pollute the environment for centuries.
The use of electric cars with zero carbon dioxide emissions improves the state of ecology
If you live in your own house, you can get energy from the wind.
Renewable energy sources are more ecological than traditional ones.